All right! Welcome back!
Let's have a look at how to containerize
natively built Quarkus application. We will
start with the lab native-
container start script,
which downloads the exercise
files and solution files,
which aren't really many.
Because what we will be doing is
simply logging into OpenShift,
so we will be sourcing our
ocp4.config file and
then using the variables inside
it to log into OpenShift.
We are also going to create a new-
project called native-container
and suffix by your username. There we go.
And once it's been created,
we are going to first deploy a Java application.
So we are going to use
oc new-app, point to
the Git repository on github.com/redhattraining/DO378-apps,
in the branch of 1.11.
The subdirectory is going
to be the expenses service,
the familiar service we have used
in the previous exercise as well.
So that's the sub-directory
that is going to get built.
And we are going to use the
base image of /ubi8/
openjdk-11 from registry.access.redhat.com.
The character between the image name on
the left-hand side and
the source code repository URL on the
right-hand side is a tilde character,
so the curly character,
it's not a minus,
so be careful of that.
What OpenShift then does is
it creates 2 image streams.
One for the base image,
one for the application image
to be pushed into, build
configuration, a deployment
to run the app and of course,
the service to be able to access it
from within the OpenShift
Container Platform.
It also starts a build immediately,
which we can tail the logs of.
So we can see it's cloning the source code
and then starting the build
using the base image.
It generates quite a lot of logs,
what we will be looking for
is actually the time,
the point in time when
the build has completed,
just to make sure that
the build logs complete
or finish with the successful push
to the internal image registry.
We do have a pod running already.
The application pod that is,
it's been running for 9
seconds by this point.
We will be looking at this
application logs as well.
So using oc logs with the name of the pod,
we can see that the startup time for
this pod was 1.5 seconds, just under.
And if we want to test it,
we first have to create a route.
So we will expose the service
called jvm-expenses.
We get a host name and if we send
a get request to that host name with
the endpoint of /expenses,
there is our expense report.
Right? Let's now switch to a native build.
We are going to reuse the
oc new-app command
but this time we are using the
same source code location,
but we are using a different base image.
I will be using quay.io/quarkus/ubi-quarkus-native-
s2i with the version
tag of 20.3.3.
We are going to call the new
application native-expenses.
And oc new-app again
creates 2 image streams, one for
the base image, one for
the application image to be pushed to,
a build configuration, a deployment
to run the app and a service.
What we will do is immediately cancel the
automatically created build
because as we all know,
the native builds are extremely
memory in CPU intense,
so the OpenShift controllers will
actually terminate the pod
on account that it would just use
excessive resources on the node.
So what we will do is first,
we are going to add some
resource limits to it,
namely 4 cpu cores and
3.5 gigabytes of memory.
This will make the build
a little bit longer,
but it will ensure that
it actually finishes.
So then we can start the build
and wait for it to complete.
There is quite a lot of logs produced here.
But eventually we do get the report,
the breakdown of various phases.
We can see it completed in
a total of 2 minutes,
which is not bad at all.
And the image was again built and pushed
into the internal image registry.
If we have a look at the pods, of course,
we have to wait for
the new native expenses application pod
to finish starting up. There we are.
It's now running. If we
have a look at the logs,
we can see that Quarkus started up in
20 milliseconds as a vast
improvement over the previous one.
If we expose the service native-expenses
to get a host name,
to connect to sending a curl
request to that host name,
we get our good old expense report.
That concludes the exercise and at
the same time, the chapter.
So let's just run the lab native-container finish script,
and move on to the next
chapter where we discuss
testing Quarkus applications.
See you there.